From Hanselman is.com. It's Hansel
minutes, a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
63 quarter Tuesday May 1st, 2007. Support
for Hansel minutes is provided
by Tellerik already controls the
most comprehensive suite of components
for windows forms, asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. Support is also
provided by dotnet developers journal.
The world's leading.net developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Scott Guthrie and
Jason Zander at mix about
silver lights. Hi, this is
Scott Hanselman, and this is
another episode of Hansel minutes,
the podcast. It doesn't waste
your time and we're over
here at mix in Las
Vegas. And I am fortunate
enough to be sitting with
Scott Guthrie and Jason Zander and
Scott. We know that you
control all things type using
and you hit control space.
You pretty much are everything
there. Jason, you were actually
at Devon, the core CLR
team and now have risen
to a power broker. Well,
I was one of the
original developers. The CLR started
in 96, small set of
us started working on it
then. So I'm a general
manager for the CLR team,
compact framework, other things like
that, working for Scott. Oh,
awesome. So everyone's talking about
the silver light surprise. That
one actually called it the
Silverlight surprise out in the
hallway and it's cross-platform CLR.
Mack people are wandering around
mics, running.net code on their
Macs. That was a little
bit of a fun surprise
to drop on people. I
thought to people's brains were
going to explode. It's pretty
fantastic. There was, there was
definitely, you know, it's fun
when you're doing a keynote
and people are wondering what
is going to come next.
And that was a little
bit of that yesterday. So
there's the Silverlight story. There's
beta is 1.0 beta and
there's 1.1 alpha and all
those bits are up at
microsoft.com/silverlight. But that the cross-platform
thing to make that happen,
people were speculating tiny CLR,
micro CLR, re totally new
written CLR, but you guys
have done something different. What
we've done is we're shipping
silver, like one L this
summer, and that's basically focused
on media scenarios. It only
has a JavaScript programming model.
We're going to go ahead
and ship one one later,
but their alpha of one,
one is available for download
now along with visual studio
tool support for it. And
basically in the one, one
release, we are including a
CLR engine and the CLR
engine we're using is actually
Is based on the same
code base for the full
desktop CLR. So it's not
a tiny CLR, it's not
a complex framework version of
the CLR. It is actually
the same CLR execution engine
that you know, that you're
using with Donna today. The
two O CLRs it's generics
and collections and all that
Generics was collections. It was
the same garbage collector. It
has the same jitter and
the same type of system.
And one of the benefits
that means is that you
can actually compile an assembly.
And if you use the
same framework libraries, you know,
that same file format and
the same assembly can be
used on the desktop engine,
as well as within Silverlight.
So are we going to
see prescriptive guidance coming about
whether it's appropriate to start
moving computational work that happened
on the server side, like
validation and data transfer objects
and different business objects and
moving those over onto all
those desktop Pentiums that are
currently hanging out, not doing
any work. Yeah, well, so
certainly ongoing going forward, you'll
see much more prescriptive guidance
as to, you know, how
you use all the different
app patterns that we have.
You know, I think one
of the important things that
people should make sure to
really understand is, you know,
so really in many ways
it doesn't replace things. It's,
it's really enabling new scenarios
that, that weren't possible today.
And so there's definitely, you
know, we still absolutely expect
people to be building a
full desktop apps using WPF.
I'm absolutely going to be
building suicide apps with the
asp.net. And you know, what
we're trying to do with
Silverlight is enable you to
run down in the browser
and go ahead and kind
of merge some of the
best attributes of both worlds
and integrate nicely into, you
know, an overall suite, Right?
I mean, certainly folks have
gotten that on their, on
their desktop. They can exploit.net
all they want, but, and
your demo, you took an
XP box and I think
it was just an XP
gold desk. It didn't have
anything on it. You're running,
it didn't, it looked
like it had just been
booted up fresh, no.net framework
on it, of any kind
at all. And you went
click click, and suddenly you
were running.net in the browser.
What are the things that
we've done with silver light?
And you're, you'll see us
take the same installed technology
to the full diamond framework
going forward as well. But
with silver, one of things
that we did was really
try to make the install
experience lightening fast. And so,
you know, in general, once
you have the bits download,
it's about a ten second install
experience on a clean machine,
and that does not require
the diamond framework on the
machine. It does not require
any codex on the machine.
Literally, as you take a
fresh machine, 10 seconds, you're
good to go That whole
three minutes. What is MSI
doing? Correct. Kind of thing.
It was actually so fast.
I ran it three times.
Cause I didn't know that
it did anything. Yeah. Yeah.
We've heard that from a
few people. Yeah. That somehow
make it more obvious that
like, Oh, it worked because
lot of people keep saying
like, well, okay, I guess
it was the crash because
it takes seconds and it's
gone, you know, It takes
longer to remove shareware than
it does to get this
thing on your box. I
mean, it's just butter. It
really installed my butter. Yeah.
And that's, that's certainly kind
of an experience that I
think, you know, it's critical
for the types of scenarios
we're going after with silver
light are really kind of
enabled kind of ubiquitous web
apps on the web to
take advantage of this. And
then you have to have
that kind of a seamless,
completely seamless installed technology in
order to make that out.
Now, one of the things
that you said a moment
ago was that right now
in Silverlight one, Oh, the,
the kind of engine, the
glue is the JavaScript inside
the browser, but outside Silverlight,
but we're going to be
enabling JavaScript inside Silverlight inside
the browser. So you have,
you could have managed JavaScript
like J script, what other
dynamic languages are going to
be in there. Yeah. So
one of the things that
we announced yesterday is this,
this new framework lab where
we call the dynamic language
time. And it's just a,
it's an assembly that provides
a whole bunch of infrastructure
support for enabling dynamic languages
and dramatically simplifies writing new
languages on top of.net. And
we'll support that with Python.
We have our iron Python
compiler that we've already shipped
in the past Java script,
dynamic version of VB. And
then one of things we
also announced yesterday was that
we're supporting Ruby through a
new compiler that we're building
called iron Ruby. So this
means Ruby in the browser,
but also the DLR, because
it's not actually, even though
it's called the DLR runtime,
it doesn't modify our patch,
the CLR, like you said,
it's just an assembly. Yep.
I can reference it on
the service side to start.
Absolutely. Yeah. You can start
using mix and match a
Ruby on the server side.
You can use Ruby inside
WPF and obviously you can
use it inside a silver
line. So from a language
perspective, if you love Python,
you love Ruby. You'll love
C sharp. You love vb.net.
It's the place to be
one of the big things
we should say. That's also
available on COVID flux right
now you can download the
source code. But the big
thing that we're trying to
do with the dynamic language
runtime was take some of
the elements that came out
of the iron Python work
that Jim Hogan and I
had done and said, how
can we just like we
did with the common language
subset in the CLR originally
make it really easy for
dynamic language author to go
build new languages that can
share and take advantage of
the built in functionality. And
so, as soon as you
sit on top of this,
you get dispatch and, you
know, type interaction and things
like that. If you'd otherwise
have to go write yourself
and you might wind up
with kind of a walled
garden approach where you know
that dynamic language didn't understand
this one, this kind of
bridges, that gap. And then,
because it's all written with
the same CLR underneath, it's
the same file format. You
can use the debugger, separate
points, all the rest of
that kind of stuff just
comes to you for free.
This is going to be
a playground for the guys
that wrote BU to go,
because I've looked at the,
if you look at the
code, if you take some,
you know, BU from code
house, you look at their
stuff, which is know Python
kind of risk friendly CLI
language. And if you look
at their stuff and reflector,
they're doing a lot of
compiler generation and they're doing
some kind of filtering some
funky stuff in there. They're
gonna be able to kind
of throw all that away
because a lot of those
services around dynamic dispatch going
to be available to them
in the field. Yeah. Orange
is already looking forward to
playing with the dealer more.
Yeah, certainly one of the
goals that we kind of
have from our, the dynamic
language runtime is to be
able to do a talk
at some point, you know,
a future PDC or a
future laying.net conference where you
can actually start at the
very beginning of the talk
and sort of define the
language on stage, and then
you can actually code it
and actually have it up
and running, working inside Silverlight
and then having a work
inside the WPA. I wonder
how long it's been It
take for somebody to hack
together a PowerShell asp.net, a
dynamic language thing. I probably
won't take too long at
all. Actually. Yeah. I suspect
it probably won't take very
long at all. Well, the
key thing for us, you
know, again, the thing we're
trying to enable, you know,
like, you know, why use
the CLR? It's like, well,
you get to use, you
know, RGC are just in
time compiler it's world class,
and now you get to
essentially use Jim Hogan and
then his code and, you
know, John Lamb and all the
code he's contributing and just
bring that on top of
yours. So it makes it
really, really simple. So in
the past, when I've tried
to do kind of a
poor man's co-generation of poor
man's dynamicism in, within the
CLR, I do reflection that
emit and coat dump stuff.
And I usually end up
leaking assemblies. I can't get
assemblies kicked out and stuff.
And then with dotnet two
Oh, there was introduction to
the dinner Method. Yeah. It's
the lightweight gen or LCG
for short. So you're basically
kind of creating programmer intent,
wrapping it around this handle
and calling it a dynamic
method and they get garbage
collected, just like Any other
object. That's right. It's kind
of like, I have this
piece of IOL. I'd like
to trade that for a
function pointer police. Right. Which
is really nice and a
kind of malleable dynamic environment
where you're defining redefining methods,
et cetera. That was actually
a feature that was put
into version 2.0 with the
CLR way back when, in
order to support a dynamic
languages. And so then Jim
was able to come along,
do you want your Python
one point, Oh, you know,
you leverage that in a
bunch of other code and
you know, that's essentially what
you get, because if you
just try and do this
work yourself, it can be
kind of hard to figure
out what the tricks are,
how to make it performance
and things like that. And
that's what the deal art
does for you. It just
does a lot of that
heavy lifting. You can just
hook up to it or
Ryan's gonna love that The
blue guys. So when you're
doing a lot of dynamic,
co-generation like that, how do
you balance that with, with
security and safety? I know
there's probably a new security
model within Silverlight, but also
just the regular CLR. And
you've got ill being shitted
left and right here. Yeah.
Well, the important thing there
is, you're still using IO
and you're still using the
type safe, you know, subsistent
inside of the CLR. So
we're still gonna run the
verifier, you know, inappropriate and
based on usual security settings
and things like that. And
so you get all those,
those same kinds of benefits,
right? That is the advantage
of having the, you know,
the managed code system, therefore
you, and as you mentioned
in silver light, there's actually
a new, a pretty simple,
straightforward sandbox security model. We
will be bringing that forward
onto the desktop CLR as
well. So that your apps
again, when you write it
for Silverlight and you decide
at some point, wow, I'd
really love to add, you
know, 3d and full WPF.
You can quite easily just
take that code and move
it forward. So there's been
a lot of innovation around
security in this release. It's
something we haven't even talked
about too much yet, but
I'll probably be doing follow
ups on blogs and stuff
over there. Very cool. Do
you see that there are
a lot of people who've
done a lot of crazy
stuff in JavaScript and I
say crazy stuff. I don't
mean that it's necessarily bad
or to be pejorative, but
they've taken JavaScript and just
squeezed so much that they
built entire engines. I'm not
talking specifically about Ajax, but
whole object models and realizations
in the browser. How compliant
is the ECMAScript support. That's
going to get jetted versus
the stuff on the outside,
such that someone could take
good JavaScript and an engine
on the client side and
put that in and suddenly
get a thousand X speed
up A couple of different
things. You will be able
to go ahead and use
our JavaScript compiler. Right? I
think the big key thing
for developers that we're going
to have to sort through
is, you know, how compatible
can we make that code
when we go off and
do it, obviously, you know,
the one nice thing about
JavaScript, it's, you know, it's
been in, you know, Firefox,
he's had her for a
long time. It was kind
of standardized, et cetera. And
any time you come along
with a new code system
or language, that's usually the
trickiest part is to get
that there. So we will
have the performance, as you
mentioned, with the, with the
compile code on top of
it, but we're going to
work through the guidance and
you know, what we won't
recommend is saying, Hey, just
go drop this thing in,
replace everything. We're going to
have a more gradual kind
of set of guidance there.
Appropriate. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
We know that J script
dot DLL and its history
it's been around for a
very long time. And there's
a lot of people that
feel that, you know, J
script because of the way
it was architected and some
of the comm background around
the scripting languages and the
plugins and how it was
reused with classic ASP, it's
a little slow, particularly in
its interactions with the Dom,
how are Silverlight and server
lights now going to be
allowed to reach out of
itself and into the Dom
as well as JavaScript code
in the browser outside of
Silverlight reaching back in. So
there's this kind of this
seamless bridge between two type
systems. How does that work
and how has that performance?
Yeah, it was, we basically,
there's two features that call
out one is we do
have a managed Dom API.
Now the chips were Silverlight.
And so you can go
ahead and use any thought
in it language, you can
use C sharp, you can
use VB, you can use
Python, Ruby, Java script. And
from within dotnet code, you
can go ahead and just
say each mole, page dot
HTML document. And you have
a reference to the HTML
document that the silver light
controls being hosted on. And
so you can create elements.
You can get access to
elements, a dominate, get element
by ID and get a
reference to it. You can
also, and this is kind
of really cool is if
you, for example, reach out
and grab a button or
reference to a button, you
can also attach a managed
event to that button. So
you can reach any HTML
element and wire up any
event that typically you do
in Java script and wire
up a dotnet delegate to
it. And so if you
want to really have the
complete capability to interact with
HTML or rich way, that's
hot. Yeah. That's pretty cool.
And that works across browser,
so, and cross platform. So
that's not just an naive
thing that works in Firefox
that works in Safari. There's
a dynamic, there's a dispatch
mechanism within some of the
ag hosts, chit JavaScript. Then
it must be why It's
not an AGU host, but
it's public it's in the
it's in the plugin. The
plugin is watching what's going
on. Yeah. I didn't realize
I had that kind of
power plugins plugins can do
a lot. How can they
go full screen? I thought
that was kind of creepy.
Yeah. So, you know, basically
plugins do have the ability
to go full screen. So
we, one of the demos
that we showed a couple
of demos we showed was
the ability for people to
effectively go completely full screen
and, and do some pretty,
pretty neat interactions as a
result. Yeah. And one of
the nice things also about
the Fullscreen is you can
go ahead and not only
run video snippets, but you
can actually run the video
over the entire thing. And
so you can actually do
full screen video with silver
light and even cooler. And
it's one of the things
that the major league baseball
folks showed on Monday is
you can actually overlay text
as well as controls and
rich UI and UI. You
want go with WPI on
top of the video while
you're running full screen. And
that just really lets you
build some mind boggling UI
experiences. I noticed when they
did that, they would go
to Fullscreen and they'd look
at the video and they'd
go back in the brand.
And it wouldn't actually restart
like with windows media player
where it's like, Oh, I've
gone full screen and we're
going to start all over
again. I got to see.
Yep. So yeah, we don't,
we don't have to restart
and you can even go
ahead and actually resize the
video dynamically. So it's not
just full screen or minimalized.
You can actually say like,
I'm going to expand the
video by 5% every second.
And the, the video stream
does not stop. It does
not pause. It does not
restart. You get a completely
smooth experience. And that's again,
across all platforms, all browsers,
Yeah. Back to the JavaScript
kind of CLR bridge. And
this, this, this, this seamlessness
that's going on, could that
Putin. I know that every
technology, every new technology gives
someone potentially more rope to
hang themselves with, but people
are doing a lot of
threadings and more and more
in the client. And now
you've got two different threading
models, the JavaScript on the
outside and the JavaScript on
the inside, they could both
potentially listen to events, be
poking at buttons. One could
probably get themselves into a
bit of a, Well, from
a threading perspective. You're, you're
actually handling all of the
events on the same UI
thread. And so the way
the browser works is, you
know, if you have two
buttons with two event handlers,
you can't run into a
situation where you click both
real quickly in both events,
fire, you'll actually be executing
on the same thread. There's
no, yeah. There's only one
UI thread for browsers. Now
what Silverlake will enable you
to do is create background
threads. And so if you
want to be able to
use any computationally intensive in
the background, there's, there will
be a model for you
to go ahead and do
that within Silverlight. And then
you can, you can basically
post an event, post an
event that the UI thread
can then go ahead and
handle. So once you finished
with that, you can go
ahead and update the UI
Can poorly, but I'm a
little confused, can poorly behaved
JavaScript in the browser outside
Silverlight affect the threat of
the UI thread enough that
the Silverlight would have trouble
doing it's video. There's the
Brown, I mean the brothers,
the browser wind frame, there's
there's the client area that's
rendered. And then there's kind
of the execution thread of
the browser phase. Yeah. If
proper theory, if you had
like an infinite loop in
your JavaScript that that could
affect, obviously the We're going
to do a Silverlight, I'm
just thinking more about just
generally, because the potential not
only for using the client
for more serious computations now
becomes kind of pretty significant,
but also the ability for
concurrency to be, to be
doing one thing while doing
another, I mean, we were
watching the top banana demo
during the, during the keynote
and he had it would
nine videos going simultaneously while
moving a scroll bar over
on the left. And I'm
trying to think to myself,
how much concurrency and state
is he having to manage
and how much of this
is just being handled by
the intrinsic media functionality built
into Silverlight. It appears that
playing video is, is it's
trivial. It's just handle you
just say, Hey, play it.
You have to worry about
anything. It manages to stay.
Yeah. There's a built into
both full and WPF. And
then also the WPF on
silver Silverlight he has a
immediate element control. And basically
with a media element control,
you can go ahead and
point to kind of any
type of media file, including
a WMV video file. And
there's an object model for
playing pausing, stopping, seeking for
that. And so this top
of Nana app, which you
can actually go to www.silverlight.net,
and I believe we have
a video up and just
a nice high rise video
if you want to watch
it, but it's pretty stunning.
And the nice thing is
all of the actual graphics
performance is encapsulated inside that
media element control. And so
yeah, all he did in
his app is play, play,
play on the nine of
them. And, you know, Silverlight
handles the rest. I think
from, you know, using the
concurrency on the client, you
know, you, you have the
nice thing which is system
threading. So it's the same
API that you're already familiar
with. And I think the
very common usages are going
to be, if you're gonna
do intense, you know, numerical
crunching or a big algorithm
analytics, you know, take your
pick and go kick off
a thread to do that.
Another interesting one will be
things like, Hey, I'd like
to go make a web
service call. It may, you
know, have a lot of
latency associated with it. It
may take a long time
to stream it. So this
gives me an opportunity to
kick off that background thread,
pulling in results, processing them,
kind of queuing them up
for the UI piece. That's
the sort of thing I
think you'll wind up using
it. People do try and
do that today with JavaScript,
with a wacky combination of,
you know, kind of timers
and those sort of things.
I think that gets to,
you know, it's hard to
write that kind of code.
It's hard to debug it
and get it right. So
having that powerful, just writing
model with that and that
therefore you, you know, works
great. And then the media
controls encapsulate all the other
hard work. So the two
is very powerful. You have
a good point that you're
saying that the there's the,
the threading, the threading classes
that we're used to, you
know, it may not be
the actual BCL system, not
threading that, you know, exact
same code, but it's, it's
behaving the same way. It's
the same public interface. It
may have Silverlight specific things,
but I just, as I,
their system got IO that
isolated storage, right. Is that
the same isolated storage? There's
probably no, it's probably Silverlight
specific for the security. The,
the, in general we did
is we went through again,
looked at the scenarios, came
from the core up, decided
what the minbar was. And
a lot of cases, we
actually just factored the existing
code. That's the case for
the core CLR itself is
the case for a bunch
of the framework libraries as
well. In other cases, we
said, well, what's unique about
being in the browser, right?
And I have XML HTTP,
I have other kinds of
services for the browser. And
so we took some of
the same, you know, API
contracts gives you the same
behavior, like you mentioned, but
we may have plumbed some
of those into the environment
that we live. So there's
a little mixture of both
in every case, it was,
what's the right thing for
what the developer wants to
accomplish in this environment. That's
how we did it. So
I don't know if this
is an appropriate analogy, but
tell me if this, if
my thinking is right for
a while, I would write
code on one Oh one
one, and I'd make sure
they compiled and worked on
both. And then there was
a time when I'd write
code on one, one and
two Oh, and maybe motto.
And you want to just
basically pick the intersection of
the base class library, is
that, that same thinking that
we could do, and it's
totally appropriate. Even, even encouraged
to write assemblies and take
that exact same DLL and
use it on the surface.
I use it on the
client side using that subset
of intersected, a base class
library. Yeah. I mean, I
mean, we, even, even what
we tried to in Silverlight
is, you know, I think
if you look at the
number of classes we have,
I haven't actually counted them,
but it's probably 1200 or
something. You know, we have
some pretty rich libraries, including
for example, link. So if
you have some business logic
and your, your, you know,
you have some collections of
objects that are, you know,
generic collections and, you know,
you've got computational, you got
some validation, logic or anything
like that. You know, you
can express that using link
and some of the functional
programming constructs that it provides,
you do all the query
and you can do all
the data modeling and yeah.
That assembly will work in
any dotnet. There's so many
people out in the hallway.
Now that mostly from my
point of view, that the
developers that are thinking about
is this going to be,
you know, is this whatever
they're thinking about the way
to do something like one
guy said, well, we'll, we'll
take our HTML forms and
we'll score them off into
a Silverlight, that'll be like
a one pixel by one
pixel Silverlight it won't have
any UI we'll load up
the object and then send
it across via web services.
And this is how they're
going to exploit their web
services stuff. I mean, certainly
you could do that. I
can do a lot of
things. You can do a
lot of things. So you
can absolutely have a HTML
page that has no WPF
UI on it at all.
And, you know, use the,
the, both the HTML Dom
API, since it's overload. The
other thing that's kind of
cool though, is Silverlight allows
you to expose public static
methods on your route container
class. And you can then
go ahead and decorate those
methods and say they are
script realizable. And that means
that you can actually from
JavaScript in the browser. So
again, using the native JavaScript
that ships with a browser,
you can actually construct JavaScript
objects and call those public
static methods that might be
written in C sharp and
will actually serialize the JavaScript
to, and from those methods,
This is like a method
missing for jobs. Yeah. Well,
JavaScript's, you know, job's going
to lay back It's whole.
Yeah, it's holding it down
thing. I keep putting things
in Ruby terms, but I
just decided that I want
to function be called Fu
I'm going to call it
from JavaScript. And when I
say Fu it's happening again,
Correct. And if you pass
in, for example, a couple
of strings or an integer
or an array of objects,
we can actually serialize back
and forth. And we were
actually reusing the same sterilization
technology that we used, where
they spend an Ajax on
the server as part of
our Jason marshaling code. But
the cool thing is we're
actually marshaling, not, you know,
we're marshaling to and from
native dominant types provides another
easy way that, you know,
if you want to go
ahead and you have something
computationally intensive on the browser,
you can actually, yeah. If
you want it, you can
host a server like control
that has no UI and
just call into it and
use the CLR engine to
basically process it. It seems
like you could, you can
scale up your use of
Silverlight. I mean, if you're
using the example you just
gave as a, as a
really simple one, you know,
maybe I'm a scientist and
I've got something really hardcore
going on. And I want
to just add a computational
engine and do some more
distributed computing. Suddenly Silverlight, without
UI is doing distribute computing.
Then I decide to put
some visualizations in and maybe
I go to a 100%
buy 100% silver light fills
the screen. And I'm kind
of living the whole rich
media lifestyle and go all
the way up and down
that hole. Yeah. And the
WB, I mean, the WPF
UI framework that we'll ship
in Silverlight will be a
rich framework today. I mean,
today in the alphabets, it
is very much focused on
visualization and some of the
core primitives that we need
in order to build higher
level controls. We don't have,
we don't have many higher
level controls yet. You'll see
those controls start to appear.
And now that we have
the core basis there and
he'll see constructs like the
WPF layout, manager's data binding,
you know, eventually a data
grid and those types of
controls up here of they're
not all there yet, but
it does provide a really
good foundation today is with
today's build as well as
a control encapsulation model, such
that you can build those
types of components. You know,
I definitely recommend people do
take a look at WPF
because it is a very
exciting technology. One thing, going
back to your threading comments
in terms of how the
top banana video editor app
was able to display things
as sort of stunning. And
as real time as it
looked is that WPF is
what we call a retain
mode graphics engine, which means
that when you actually paint
something on the screen, you
don't have to manually write
any code to repaint it
WPF. And the whole model
does that for you automatically.
So it's different than say
when 32 or user TDI,
which made it much more
harder to do that. The
thing that we've done with
our WPF implementation and Silverlight
is it is very much
optimized to take advantage of
as many cores or processors
you have on the system.
So if you have two
cores and, you know, going
forward, pretty much every machine
will have two cores or
more cores. You automatically get
a really rich UI framework
that is designed to maximize
and take advantage of that.
And that, that, that is
also one of the reasons
why you can build some
stunning graphics using Silverlight. Yeah.
Is that, that usage of
multiple cores, is that at
a WPF aspect of Silverlight
or is that a new
thing in the core CLR?
Well, the, the CLR does
take advantage of multiple cores
are things like garbage collection
and things like that, but,
but from a graphics perspective
and from a UI framework
perspective, that is certainly something
we're doing the Silverlight and
the full WPF going forward.
And, you know, there's a
number of dozens, a good
blog post I should do,
but there's number of things
that we're doing across.net. Well,
the UI layer, but also
things like link that by
going to a mode where
you're just you're, you're not
actually telling us what to
do. You're actually describing what
you'd like to have done.
So XAML, you, you say
paint this pixel, you say,
I want a rectangle here,
this dimension, and with link,
you don't say search the
four, don't do a four
loop. I say, I want
to have something that meets
this criteria by doing more
declarative intent, you know, the
CLR and thought net and
or higher level frameworks will
be able to go ahead
and optimize appropriately across multiple
cores. Does Silverlight act any
different on Vista with the
desktop compositing engine? I mean,
it's, it's painting it's, it's,
it's constrained to what the
put the browser can do,
right. So I think I'd
asked this question to you
casually in the hall, the
idea that if you use
the accessibility magnifier and you
hover over a WPF app,
like the New York times reader,
you get beautiful anti-elitist stuff.
But if the WPF engine
in Silverlight is different and
living within the browser, if
you take the Vista magnifier
over that, you'll probably get,
rasters probably get better. Yeah.
You asked me yesterday. I
haven't had a chance to
try it out Box line
around, you know what I'm
asking about though? Don't you
Jason. Yeah. Yeah. I understand
exactly what you're asking about.
I mean, it's not a
particularly interesting, it's not a
big deal, but it sure
is an interesting question because
it tells you how it,
it gives it gives it's
nice to experiment. Right? Cause
I don't have the code.
So as a, as a
scientist, I have to use
a scientific method to clean
what I think is going
on inside. Yeah. The thing
with WPF on the desktop,
especially with Vista Vista introduced
a new driver model and
it made it much easier
to do this kind of
cooperative, you know, graphics processing
on the machine. And so,
you know, you get full
hardware acceleration and other things
like that. And so that's
one of the advantages you're
gonna get with the desktop
version of WPF. In this
case, Silverlight is optimized for,
you know, cross plaid giving
you reach et cetera, but
it shares a lot of
the same, you know, graphics
techniques underneath of that. That's
very, that's very, very good
information because you're, you're, you're
starting to give me and
hopefully other folks enough information
to decide what, what tools
right. For the job, like,
I've always wondered about the
ex bap, right? The XAML
browser-based applications. And I've always
thought it was kind of
this red headed stepchild, but
you just right then made
me realize that if I
was doing a browser based
3d accelerated application, that the
protein folding or something, and
I wanted it to be,
and I didn't want it
to be a OneTouch deploy,
jump out of the browser.
I wanted a silver light
like experience and a very
minimal installation that an expert
would be totally appropriate for
that. I would get all
the hardware acceleration and all
of the, the full WPF
desktop experience inside the car.
Yeah, certainly, you know, the
way we've been thinking about
Silverlight and this, this is
I think an important point
for people to understand is
all the API is, and
the features and Silverlight are
absolutely designed to be cross
platform. And we won't be
adding in features to Silverlight
that we can't consistently expose
on all platforms. And so
developers can know, Hey, if
I write to the subset,
it will work in all
browsers and all platforms. You
know, there will always be
richer features that we can
have, we can use that
are platform specific, like 3d
hardware, acceleration, you know, like
richer database support and things
like that. And those, you
know, obviously the dot framework
and the window, you know,
things like X paps and
full WPF applications, all the
client will be able to
take advantage of. And certainly
we see that there are
different types of apps that
people build. Sometimes they want
it to be as ubiquitous
as possible. So really it's
the way to go for
client apps. And sometimes you
want to take as much
maximum reach of the operating
system you're running on the
system, whether it's office integration,
whether it's 3d, whether it's
offline support, there's a whole
bunch of other good reasons
there. And there obviously the
full.net framework with WPF, either
running an expat mode or
outside the browser is really
appropriate. The best is absolutely
the right thing to do.
Cool. People are stoked. People's
brains are exploding. They're wanting
to one guy blogged. He's
like, wow, I have learning
to do. He's like, he's
been kind of sitting around,
you know, just cutting C
sharp for a few years.
Like, Oh, this is the
biggest thing since.net. As far
as I'm concerned, we're pretty
excited about it. It's been,
we've been working on this
for a year now and
it's great to finally be
able to ship the bits
and be able to talk
about it and see people's
reactions. You know, people were
just stunned yesterday and it's
always fun to have that.
The future is bright. I
really appreciate you guys taking
the time out of your
day. I know your schedule
with you guys talking to
the press, everybody. Thanks a
lot for talking to us
here on house. .